[MUSIC PLAYING]
Usually, once someone
says, so what's your sign,
the next question is, do
you know your rising sign?
We astrologers map the
planets against the horizon
at the time of someone's birth.
The rising sign
very simply stated
is the zodiac sign
that is appearing
on the eastern horizon
at any given moment.
Because the Earth spins around,
rotates, once every 24 hours,
it appears that
each and every one
of the 12 signs of the
zodiac rise every single day.
Because of the tilt of the
earth and other weird planetary
dynamics, different
signs can rise
for different amounts
of time, meaning
they arise faster or slower.
And in fact, the rising sign
becomes an important part
of your personality
makeup, of your horoscope
or your birth or natal chart.
So the rising sign is the
sign on the eastern horizon,
sometimes called your
ascendant or ascending sign.
The technical term ascendant
really is the exact point
within the sign that's
rising, but these two terms
are often used interchangeably.
In astrology, the sun, and
the moon, and the rising sign
are sometimes called
the big three.
And in fact, if someone has
their son, moon, and rising
sign all in the same
sign, they would
often say, I'm a triple
Gemini, or of a triple Virgo,
or whatever.
The thing is that the sun,
the moon, and the rising sign
all move independently
at different rates.
The sun goes through the zodiac
from earth's point of view
once every year.
The moon goes through the zodiac
from earth's point of view
once a moon-th.
And the rising signs will
go through the zodiac
once every day.
The sun is who we are.
That's why sun sign
astrology works.
I am a Taurus.
I am bull or I am
Gemini, or you are.
These are when we say, I
am, we say, I am, the sun
is the center of who we are.
It's the fuel in the
center of our furnace.
It's the way the light is
originating within our being.
The moon is how that light is
reflected on first glimpse.
The moon is how we feel.
It's how we respond.
The rising sign
is not who we are.
We can be any one of the
12 signs of the zodiac.
It's not how we feel.
We can feel like any one of
the 12 signs of the zodiac.
The rising sign is how
the light rises off
of us and into the environment.
Remember, we're talking about
the sun rising every day.
If you're bored at
sunrise, your rising sign
is the same as your sun sign.
So I like to think
of the rising sign
as how we dawn on other people.
It's the dance we dance
when we meet someone new.
We may be a certain way.
We may feel a certain way.
But every time we get
introduced to another person,
we go into this, Hi,
my name is Joe Blow.
My name is-- and
we do this dance
that becomes familiar
to us as we grow older,
because it's different
than who we are
and it's different
than how we feel.
It's the dance we dance
when we meet someone new.
And by the second, or third, or
fourth dance with that person,
they're beginning to say,
ahh, so you really this way.
You appeared that way to me.
The rising sign
is how we appear.
It's how we seem
at first glance.
It's often are physical
characteristics.
Carl Jung called the rising sign
our persona or mask, meaning
that it's our personality.
It's not who we are.
It's our personality.
It's the mask that
we hide behind.
But make no mistake about it.
It's not false.
The mask is not something
separate from us.
The mask is part of us.
It's like our veneer.
It's this surface that
we have that doesn't
make it any less important.
And in fact, in
some ways it makes
it more important because the
only way the light of our sun
gets out and the only way
our feelings are expressed
are ultimately through
our rising sign.
I love the fact that in Vedic or
in eastern astrology that they
consider the rising sign,
not just how we appear,
it's not just how the
personality gets out,
but it's also they
consider it a doorway.
It's how the outside gets in.
The rising sign is like
the doorway to our soul.
In fact, I think of it
as it's the way each
and every one of us are nailed
to the three dimensional world.
We each have our
own cross to bear.
And the rising sign in
some ways represents
that interface that we have.
We all each and
every one of us have
an interface with the
three dimensional world.
And our rising sign and in
particular our ascendant
is the point at which
we are interfaced,
or connected, or nailed to
the three dimensional world.